UNIT- 1

1. Explain all key objectives of cryptography.
2. Draw and Explain OSI Architecture.
3. Differentiate symmetric and asymmetric encryption?
4. Define Active and Passive attacks with Example.
5. Write a short note on Security Services.
6. Explain playfair cipher substitution technique in detail. Find out cipher text for the following given key and plaintext.Key = ENGINEERING Plaintext=COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
7. Encrypt using HILL CIPHER the P.T “ATTACK CHINAA” using the keyGYDNSKURT
8. Differentiate between Monoalphabetic and Polyalphabetic cipher.
9. Explain the Vigener Cipher with an example.
10.Explain the Vernam Cipher with an example.
11. Explain Block cipher mode of operation.
12.Why is it important to study Feistel cipher?
13.Explain a single round function in DES.
14.Explain Byte substitution and Shift row operation of AES in detail.
15.Elaborate AES encryption with neat sketches.
16.Explain avalanche effect in DES and discuss strength of DES in brief.
17.Explain function of S-BOX in DES and also Explain avalanche effect.
18.What are the different Types of Attack on Encrypted Messages.
19.Write a short note on Blowfish with a diagram.
20.Specify the difference between diffusion and confusion.
21.Differentiate between a block cipher and a stream cipher.
22.Define meet-in-the-middle attack.
23.Explain Transposition Technique.
24.Write a short note on Triple DES.
25.Discuss the following terms in brief:
i) brute force attack ii) cryptography


UNIT- 2

1. Define Asymmetric Key Encryption with a proper Diagram.
2. Explain RSA public key cryptography with all steps.
3. Explain Diffie Hellman Key Exchange with all steps.
4. Justify Diffie Hellman Key Exchange vulnerable to Man in Middle Attack.
5. P and Q are two prime numbers. P=7, and Q=17. Take public key E=5. If the plaintext value is 6, then what will be the cipher text value according to the RSA algorithm? Explain in detail.
6. Solve this example Using Knapsack algorithm Super Increasing sequence={1, 2, 4, 10, 20, 40} Do solve.
7. Explain in detail about Elliptic Curve Architecture.
8. Write a short note on Man in the Middle Attack.
9. Write a short note on Key Distribution and also define Master and Session Key.
10.List four general categories of schemes for the distribution of public keys.
11. Write a note on simple secret key distribution.
12.Draw a neat sketch showing the key distribution scenario.
13.Specify the application of public key cryptography.


Unit 3

1.Explain MACs based on Hash functions.
2.Discuss SHA-1 with proper diagrams.
3. Explain HMAC with a diagram.
4.Explain Elgamal and Schnorr Digital Signature algorithm with examples.
5. What is Kerberos and its requirements?
6. What isPGP ?How authentication and confidentiality is maintained in PGP.
7. Explain authentication services of X.509 .
8.Explain MD5 algorithm with diagram.
9.Explain NIST Digital Signature algorithm.
10.Differentiate between SHA-1 and MD5